Hello everybody and welcome back.
Welcome to using the drawer debug line.
So we're going to learn in this lecture how to add some vectors together.
We're going to calculate our line trace and point.
So we're going to project a line from our character out into the world and that will be it will have
a certain length that'll be how far we can reach.
We'll be using debug functions for visualization and unreal so we can actually see what's going on.
And we will be specifically using draw debug line to visualize the vectors themselves and to give you
an idea of what we're going for.
Okay.
So over in real if I go ahead and press play you'll notice there's a red square in the scene okay.
So let's move this forward points it's at the cone.
Now if we ejects ourselves and look at what's going on.
Look at that.
There's this red line coming out of our body.
The thing that we possess in the scene also.
So this red line here basically visualizes our grabber how far we can reach.
Okay.
So in order to draw our line trace in the world we're going to need to know the star points of it.
And of course the end point.
So we're going to need to know a little something about vectors so upcoming is can should be a short
primer on adding them together.
So if we have some vector A represented by an arrow like this this would be like our player viewpoint
location and we add to it some other vector like the laser beam or the trace LINE COMING OUT OF OUR
EYES THEN A plus B is that vector there.
You simply add the tale of one to the head of the other.
So the results of those overall two journeys is the a possibly the green line at the bottom.
Okay.
So how does that apply to what we're doing in our real.
So we are wanting to calculate line trace and so what do we have.
Well we have the player viewpoint location and those are just three numbers that tell us where the player
is in the world relative to the origin of the world 0 0 0.
So we're already dealing with this play of viewpoint location it's what we're currently logging out.
The other thing that we've also got hold of is the player viewpoint rotation.
However we're going to have to do something different with it but that is stored as a rotation at the
moment an F rotator.
But in order to add it to our first vector we're going to have to convert it to a vector using dot vector
and that will convert our f rotator into an F vector.
And then of course we can store it in something like line trace direction.
Now the only issue that we have with this is the line trace direction essentially becomes a unit vector
which is just 1 in its length which is absolutely fine for telling us the direction but we're going
to have to multiply it by the reach.
How far do we want our player to be able to reach from their body.
Essentially how long other players arms.
So the question is what is the line trace.
And of course referring to the previous line.
That's pretty straightforward to work out.
So before we go ahead and give you that challenge let's set you up so you're able to test whether you've
got it right in the first place.
Hello everybody.
Now before we get started with this lecture what I'd like to do is go to my default pawn blueprint.
I'm gonna double click it.
I think if we go to the viewport and have a look at it that point 5.5 point five on the scale of our
default point that's just a bit big.
So I'm gonna reduce that down to point two now so point to point to point.
So remember you can tab between those that I'm going to compile on the top left and save it and then
we can use it in our project okay.
So what we want here is when we press play and inject ourselves we want to be able to look back at Star
player and see something coming out of this default pawn here indicating which direction we're facing
and how far our reaches.
Okay.
So let's go over to obvious code.
So at the moment we are currently logging out.
That's this area here.
Oh and incidentally once we're here I was just thinking that these parentheses that I've got at the
very end it'd be better if they lined up like so much like our curly braces do I think that would be
a better coding style to go with there.
And also we'll come back up to the includes in a bit and make them alphabetical which is actually the
coding standard we should be adhering to.
So that will be sorted because we're going to need another hash include in a bit.
We're going to have to go and find out what it is.
So for the moment let's stop logging out so that I'm going to comment that block outs I may remove it
but I'll leave it in there for the moment and what we want to do is draw a line from player showing
the reach.
Okay.
So I'm going to make a temporary line at the moment and of course you can finalize this all in your
challenge.
So we're gonna need an F vector.
So let's go ahead and put that in first of all.
And this will be our line trace and so line trace.
And that makes sense.
This is going to be our temporary end point whilst we're testing this all out and this is going to equal
the players viewpoint location.
That's the first part of that triangle if you remember.
And then we're going to plus and we're going to add this is are a temporary one here.
Another effector and we're gonna have to give it some values here.
And in this case I'm going to just make it go straight up.
So it's going to be okay.
So let's give you this some values to zero point f comma zero point f comma zero point oh no we don't
want zero point F on all of them.
So we want this let's say stick straight up by an entire metre so one hundred point F because these
values are gonna be in centimeters.
Of course we need to finish that's off.
So we have this idea that that's going to be the end point.
But of course now we need to make sure that we can visualize it within unreal itself.
Okay.
So in order to draw the line we're going to have to call the method draw debug line.
Now if you start typing that in you'll notice it doesn't actually appear.
So we need to go and look at the unreal documentation and find out what we need in order to do that.
Okay.
So when go into the unreal documentations and looking at draw debug line we see down here that we're
going to have to do and include hash include draw debug.
Help us also look down here.
There's quite a bit that this is going to need in order to work and we'll go through that.
Bit by bit in a moment but first of all let's go and include this draw debug help us.
Okay so let's go to the top.
Hash include draw debug help.
So that's a D G E.
Okay let's sort this out and reorder it.
Now you don't have to cut and paste remember you can use ult and just the up and down arrow to move
those around and I'll save my file as I go.
Okay.
So that looks good at the moment.
Let's scroll down on that further.
So now if we start typing draw look at that draw debug.
There's lots of options here and we want to draw a debug line as we're going through here.
Do take note of the other options that are here.
You can already see that perhaps drawing a at another is there a draw debug circle yes you can look
at a certain radius around a player that's often quite useful as well.
But we want to draw just a single line so we're going to draw the bug line.
Excellent.
Let's put up parentheses and I'm going to immediately put my semicolon on the end as well.
Got a red squiggle here.
We're going to say too few arguments.
It wants lots of them somewhat.
First of all put a return carriage in so that we can just list these out.
It's going to be a lot easier to read the first thing we need to do and if we hover over it might give
us what we need.
Let's just finish off like this.
Yes.
There we go.
So he's going to ask for first of all for the world.
Well that's can just be get world.
That's absolutely fine.
So it needs to know which where it lives basically.
And then we have the start of the line which shall be the player viewpoint location.
Then we'll have the end of the line and we've already set that up in our little test there.
We've got a color.
We've got a true or false or whether or not the line persists.
We don't want it there all the time we want it refreshed on every frame and the float lifetime.
Well because it has no persistence there is no how long does it last anyway.
That's priority.
That's to do with rendering and our thickness where we can set a thickness of the line itself.
Okay.
So let's go through these one by one.
The first one is a get a world where you can just bang that straight in there next.
What do we need.
We need the beginning point which is going to be the player viewpoint location comma New Line the end
point.
Well this is going to be our line trace and for the moment and you'll get to replace that with your
own code in the challenge.
Now the color itself.
So if this were going to go f color.
There we go.
We're going to open up and there's going to be plenty of ways of defining this.
We're simply going to use red green and blue.
Now in the example before I was giving you your red line let's make a green line this time.
So the first value will be zero representing zero in the red channel green 2 5 5 as elegantly 256 values
and 255 is the highest one for the green and then zero for our blue okay excellent camera at the end
of that.
What's the next thing that we need.
This is just going to be false.
This is going to be zero point F because it's a float lifetime don't care about it.
Oh automatically added something on the end thank you very much.
Zero point f comma.
Let's go down here depth priority again.
This is going to be zero.
Now notice here is asking for a U.
Eight.
That's just going to be an integer and a float thickness.
This is going to be in pixels.
So let's skip this.
Let's say five for the moment and we can tweak that later if we need to.
Okay.
That's all of those values there.
Let's go ahead and tidy up this mistake that came in when we were trying to get it to fill out.
Okay.
So what we should have is a green line that's five pixels in width and it should be coming out the top
of our player because it's going to go from the player's location we should just be the center of our
default pawn and it will be going 100 which should be centimeters.
So a one meter above the player straight up hopefully that will work.
Let's go over into unreal and compile okay.
The compiles complete let's go ahead and press play.
We're going to press f 8 if some.
Sometimes if you start moving around in your lap.
Oh I forgot about that.
I can't.
Oh look at that there's a green line above my head if I look up.
That is very promising.
And if we go ahead I can't reach ejects at the moment but I can press F I see you don't have to get
an eject right at the beginning and look at that we've got a green line coming out the top of our head
so now we've got that line working I've got a challenge for you and your challenge is to calculate the
actual line trace and that we want.
So exactly where the player is looking rather than just coming out the top of our head.
So you'll need to create a private variable a member variable float reach and set it to 100 F that's
going to be one need to reach then you'll need to calculate the line trace and remember this one over
here.
Here we go.
In order to calculate that it's gonna be a plus b and then test the debug trace and remember it's f
eight to eject.
So you can see back at your default porn pause video now and give us a go
Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead now and calculate the line trace end.
Okay so I'm going to go straight to the head file first of all.
And let's set up a section for our private member variables private okay.
What do we want here we want it to be a float is going to be called Reach and it's going to have a value
of 100 k That looks good to me.
Let's go over into private you have.
It was just slow catching up.
Right.
So this line trace end is not going to be this we're going to add something else on instead.
And that's something else is going to be the player viewpoint rotation I look about.
I've spelt rotation incorrectly.
That's a bit awkward but we'll we'll correct that in a moment very quickly.
So the player viewpoint rotation but this is an F rotator.
We hover over we can see that we need to convert it into a vector and remember or become a unit vector
so I'll only have a length of one.
So we use the dot operator to access the vector function and then that would just be our unit vector.
And then finally we can at times it by our reach and of course we can change our reach we can even expose
that parameter if we wanted to as well.
So that looks good to me.
Now I said that the player viewpoint rotation is wrong.
Now what we can do here is obviously do a find and replace but we can also press F too then we can come
in and just type in the correct name and when we press Enter it's going to give us a suggestion over
on the left hand side pending rename.
I'm going to click the tick there and it's renamed all of the ones that would misnamed for us.
Right.
Let's hide the area over on the side.
Save my file I think everything sorted here we should now have a green line pointing out directly where
we're looking.
Let's go ahead in Unreal.
Let's compile excellent and compile is complete.
Let's go ahead and press play.
Hey we've got a green dot coming out and let's align it there.
Remember you can press F eight to eject yourself.
Excellent.
That's exactly what we wanted to see.
Brilliant.
We've now got our line coming out.
That means that we're testing our code visually and saying yes that is going to be the how far our player
can reach.
And that's really useful it gives you an idea of how to set up your game especially if we make our game
a little bit more complex and maybe put something on a shelf or slightly in a more awkward position.
What we don't want is to inadvertently place it where the player cannot reach.
And if we've got green line coming out of us like that.
Well we're going to be able to see whether that's the case or not.
That's it for this lecture.
And I'll see you all in the next one.